---
title:  2019 notes
tags:
  - random
---
For a long time, I have written any blog post yet and there is no reason for an excuse for this.  Today is the last day of this year, so I want to write something, for this year with both funny and sad stories.

After many tries, I have done my university program about physic, it took me 5.5 years although my program is designed for 4 years, it is a long story.

After more than one year working in the current company, I have learned a lot about job in the IT field, I learn about the working process, how to work in a team, determine my role in the team, some technology about ruby, javascript, AWS. Not only that, I have learned from people I work with, my co-worker, leader, my boss about how they work, their philosophy, it gives me another aspect to reflect and find myself in the life journey. I have found my strengths and weakness to find a way for personal development.

This year, I also fell in an unclear relationship and it has ended up with not thing, I don't know it is good or not but it was over and I'm fine with that. I started to care more about myself, I spend time to exercise, reading, and do some stuff that I like.

For the new year is coming, I'll put some change for that year. I am trying to improve English skill, so I'll change my blog's language to English, maybe my post will not perfect, make mistake about sentence, word, grammar, I'll think it is so ok, mistake make us grow. I'm trying to post at least one post per week for any subject maybe is programming or not.
The next is I am trying to the established reading habit, reading every day. I also trying to learn the background of CS like data structure and algorithm which I haven't learned before, and I think is an important part to help my programing skill become better.
